Added full support for the `Bot API 9.0 <https://core.telegram.org/bots/api-changelog#april-11-2025>`_:

**Business Accounts**

- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.business_bot_rights.BusinessBotRights` and replaced
  the field :code:`can_reply` with the field :code:`rights` of the type
  :class:`aiogram.types.business_bot_rights.BusinessBotRights` in the class
  :class:`aiogram.types.business_connection.BusinessConnection`.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.read_business_message.ReadBusinessMessage`,
  allowing bots to mark incoming messages as read on behalf of a business account.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.delete_business_messages.DeleteBusinessMessages`,
  allowing bots to delete messages on behalf of a business account.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.set_business_account_name.SetBusinessAccountName`,
  allowing bots to change the first and last name of a managed business account.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.set_business_account_username.SetBusinessAccountUsername`,
  allowing bots to change the username of a managed business account.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.set_business_account_bio.SetBusinessAccountBio`,
  allowing bots to change the bio of a managed business account.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.input_profile_photo.InputProfilePhoto`,
  describing a profile photo to be set.
- Added the methods :class:`aiogram.methods.set_business_account_profile_photo.SetBusinessAccountProfilePhoto`
  and :class:`aiogram.methods.remove_business_account_profile_photo.RemoveBusinessAccountProfilePhoto`,
  allowing bots to change the profile photo of a managed business account.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.set_business_account_gift_settings.SetBusinessAccountGiftSettings`,
  allowing bots to change the privacy settings pertaining to incoming gifts in a managed business account.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.star_amount.StarAmount` and the method
  :class:`aiogram.methods.get_business_account_star_balance.GetBusinessAccountStarBalance`,
  allowing bots to check the current Telegram Star balance of a managed business account.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.transfer_business_account_stars.TransferBusinessAccountStars`,
  allowing bots to transfer Telegram Stars from the balance of a managed business account to their own balance
  for withdrawal.
- Added the classes :class:`aiogram.types.owned_gift_regular.OwnedGiftRegular`,
  :class:`aiogram.types.owned_gift_unique.OwnedGiftUnique`, :class:`aiogram.types.owned_gifts.OwnedGifts`
  and the method :class:`aiogram.methods.get_business_account_gifts.GetBusinessAccountGifts`,
  allowing bots to fetch the list of gifts owned by a managed business account.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.convert_gift_to_stars.ConvertGiftToStars`,
  allowing bots to convert gifts received by a managed business account to Telegram Stars.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.upgrade_gift.UpgradeGift`,
  allowing bots to upgrade regular gifts received by a managed business account to unique gifts.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.transfer_gift.TransferGift`,
  allowing bots to transfer unique gifts owned by a managed business account.
- Added the classes :class:`aiogram.types.input_story_content_photo.InputStoryContentPhoto`
  and :class:`aiogram.types.input_story_content_video.InputStoryContentVideo`
  representing the content of a story to post.
- Added the classes :class:`aiogram.types.story_area.StoryArea`,
  :class:`aiogram.types.story_area_position.StoryAreaPosition`,
  :class:`aiogram.types.location_address.LocationAddress`,
  :class:`aiogram.types.story_area_type_location.StoryAreaTypeLocation`,
  :class:`aiogram.types.story_area_type_suggested_reaction.StoryAreaTypeSuggestedReaction`,
  :class:`aiogram.types.story_area_type_link.StoryAreaTypeLink`,
  :class:`aiogram.types.story_area_type_weather.StoryAreaTypeWeather`
  and :class:`aiogram.types.story_area_type_unique_gift.StoryAreaTypeUniqueGift`,
  describing clickable active areas on stories.
- Added the methods :class:`aiogram.methods.post_story.PostStory`,
  :class:`aiogram.methods.edit_story.EditStory`
  and :class:`aiogram.methods.delete_story.DeleteStory`,
  allowing bots to post, edit and delete stories on behalf of a managed business account.

**Mini Apps**

- Added the field :code:`DeviceStorage`, allowing Mini Apps to use persistent
  local storage on the user's device.
- Added the field :code:`SecureStorage`, allowing Mini Apps to use a secure local
  storage on the user's device for sensitive data.

**Gifts**

- Added the classes :class:`aiogram.types.unique_gift_model.UniqueGiftModel`,
  :class:`aiogram.types.unique_gift_symbol.UniqueGiftSymbol`,
  :class:`aiogram.types.unique_gift_backdrop_colors.UniqueGiftBackdropColors`,
  and :class:`aiogram.types.unique_gift_backdrop.UniqueGiftBackdrop`
  to describe the properties of a unique gift.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.unique_gift.UniqueGift` describing
  a gift that was upgraded to a unique one.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.accepted_gift_types.AcceptedGiftTypes`
  describing the types of gifts that are accepted by a user or a chat.
- Replaced the field :code:`can_send_gift` with the field :code:`accepted_gift_types`
  of the type :class:`aiogram.types.accepted_gift_types.AcceptedGiftTypes`
  in the class :class:`aiogram.types.chat_full_info.ChatFullInfo`.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.gift_info.GiftInfo` and the field :code:`gift`
  to the class :class:`aiogram.types.message.Message`,
  describing a service message about a regular gift that was sent or received.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.unique_gift_info.UniqueGiftInfo`
  and the field :code:`unique_gift` to the class :class:`aiogram.types.message.Message`,
  describing a service message about a unique gift that was sent or received.

**Telegram Premium**

- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.gift_premium_subscription.GiftPremiumSubscription`,
  allowing bots to gift a user a Telegram Premium subscription paid in Telegram Stars.
- Added the field :code:`premium_subscription_duration` to the class
  :class:`aiogram.types.transaction_partner_user.TransactionPartnerUser`
for transactions involving a Telegram Premium subscription purchased by the bot.
- Added the field :code:`transaction_type` to the class
  :class:`aiogram.types.transaction_partner_user.TransactionPartnerUser`,
  simplifying the differentiation and processing of all transaction types.

**General**

- Increased the maximum price for paid media to 10000 Telegram Stars.
- Increased the maximum price for a subscription period to 10000 Telegram Stars.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.paid_message_price_changed.PaidMessagePriceChanged`
  and the field :code:`paid_message_price_changed` to the class
  :class:`aiogram.types.message.Message`, describing a service message about a price change
  for paid messages sent to the chat.
- Added the field :code:`paid_star_count` to the class :class:`aiogram.types.message.Message`,
  containing the number of Telegram Stars that were paid to send the message.
