Added full support for the `Bot API 9.1 <https://core.telegram.org/bots/api-changelog#july-3-2025>`_:

**Checklists**

- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.checklist_task.ChecklistTask` representing a task in a checklist.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.checklist.Checklist` representing a checklist.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.input_checklist_task.InputChecklistTask` representing a task to add to a checklist.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.input_checklist.InputChecklist` representing a checklist to create.
- Added the field :code:`checklist` to the classes :class:`aiogram.types.message.Message` and :class:`aiogram.types.external_reply_info.ExternalReplyInfo`, describing a checklist in a message.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.checklist_tasks_done.ChecklistTasksDone` and the field :code:`checklist_tasks_done` to the class :class:`aiogram.types.message.Message`, describing a service message about status changes for tasks in a checklist (i.e., marked as done/not done).
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.checklist_tasks_added.ChecklistTasksAdded` and the field :code:`checklist_tasks_added` to the class :class:`aiogram.types.message.Message`, describing a service message about the addition of new tasks to a checklist.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.send_checklist.SendChecklist`, allowing bots to send a checklist on behalf of a business account.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.edit_message_checklist.EditMessageChecklist`, allowing bots to edit a checklist on behalf of a business account.

**Gifts**

- Added the field :code:`next_transfer_date` to the classes :class:`aiogram.types.owned_gift_unique.OwnedGiftUnique` and :class:`aiogram.types.unique_gift_info.UniqueGiftInfo`.
- Added the field :code:`last_resale_star_count` to the class :class:`aiogram.types.unique_gift_info.UniqueGiftInfo`.
- Added "resale" as the possible value of the field :code:`origin` in the class :class:`aiogram.types.unique_gift_info.UniqueGiftInfo`.

**General**

- Increased the maximum number of options in a poll to 12.
- Added the method :class:`aiogram.methods.get_my_star_balance.GetMyStarBalance`, allowing bots to get their current balance of Telegram Stars.
- Added the class :class:`aiogram.types.direct_message_price_changed.DirectMessagePriceChanged` and the field :code:`direct_message_price_changed` to the class :class:`aiogram.types.message.Message`, describing a service message about a price change for direct messages sent to the channel chat.
