docs/dispatcher/webhook.rst, before:

.. _webhook:

#######
Webhook
#######

Telegram Bot API supports webhook.
If you set webhook for your bot, Telegram will send updates to the specified url.
You can use :meth:`aiogram.methods.set_webhook.SetWebhook` method to specify a url
and receive incoming updates on it.

.. note::

    If you use webhook, you can't use long polling at the same time.

Before start i'll recommend you to read `official Telegram's documentation about webhook <https://core.telegram.org/bots/webhooks>`_

After you read it, you can start to read this section.

Generally to use webhook with aiogram you should use any async web framework.
By out of the box aiogram has an aiohttp integration, so we'll use it.

.. note::

    You can use any async web framework you want, but you should write your own integration if you don't use aiohttp.


aiohttp integration
===================

Out of the box aiogram has aiohttp integration, so you can use it.

Here is available few ways to do it using different implementations of the webhook controller:

- :class:`aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.BaseRequestHandler` - Abstract class for aiohttp webhook controller
- :class:`aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.SimpleRequestHandler`  - Simple webhook controller, uses single Bot instance
- :class:`aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.TokenBasedRequestHandler`  - Token based webhook controller, uses multiple Bot instances and tokens

You can use it as is or inherit from it and override some methods.

.. autoclass:: aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.BaseRequestHandler
    :members: __init__, register, close, resolve_bot, verify_secret, handle

.. autoclass:: aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.SimpleRequestHandler
    :members: __init__, register, close, resolve_bot, verify_secret, handle

.. autoclass:: aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.TokenBasedRequestHandler
    :members: __init__, register, close, resolve_bot, verify_secret, handle

Security
--------

Telegram supports two methods to verify incoming requests that they are from Telegram:

Using a secret token
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you set webhook, you can specify a secret token and then use it to verify incoming requests.

Using IP filtering
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can specify a list of IP addresses from which you expect incoming requests, and then use it to verify incoming requests.

It can be acy using firewall rules or nginx configuration or middleware on application level.

So, aiogram has an implementation of the IP filtering middleware for aiohttp.

.. autofunction:: aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.ip_filter_middleware

.. autoclass:: aiogram.webhook.security.IPFilter
    :members: __init__, allow, allow_ip, default, check

Examples
--------

Behind reverse proxy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this example we'll use aiohttp as web framework and nginx as reverse proxy.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/echo_bot_webhook.py

When you use nginx as reverse proxy, you should set `proxy_pass` to your aiohttp server address.

.. code-block:: nginx

    location /webhook {
        proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_redirect off;
        proxy_buffering off;
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:8080;
    }


Without reverse proxy (not recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In case without using reverse proxy, you can use aiohttp's ssl context.

Also this example contains usage with self-signed certificate.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/echo_bot_webhook_ssl.py


With using other web framework
==============================

You can pass incoming request to aiogram's webhook controller from any web framework you want.

Read more about it in :meth:`aiogram.dispatcher.dispatcher.Dispatcher.feed_webhook_update`
or :meth:`aiogram.dispatcher.dispatcher.Dispatcher.feed_update` methods.

.. code-block:: python

    update = Update.model_validate(await request.json(), context={"bot": bot})
    await dispatcher.feed_update(bot, update)


.. note::

    If you want to use reply into webhook, you should check that result of the :code:`feed_update`
    methods is an instance of API method and build :code:`multipart/form-data`
    or :code:`application/json` response body manually.

Commit message:

Document webhook proxy trust model (#47) (#1765)

docs/dispatcher/webhook.rst, after:

.. _webhook:

#######
Webhook
#######

Telegram Bot API supports webhook.
If you set webhook for your bot, Telegram will send updates to the specified url.
You can use :meth:`aiogram.methods.set_webhook.SetWebhook` method to specify a url
and receive incoming updates on it.

.. note::

    If you use webhook, you can't use long polling at the same time.

Before start i'll recommend you to read `official Telegram's documentation about webhook <https://core.telegram.org/bots/webhooks>`_

After you read it, you can start to read this section.

Generally to use webhook with aiogram you should use any async web framework.
By out of the box aiogram has an aiohttp integration, so we'll use it.

.. note::

    You can use any async web framework you want, but you should write your own integration if you don't use aiohttp.


aiohttp integration
===================

Out of the box aiogram has aiohttp integration, so you can use it.

Here is available few ways to do it using different implementations of the webhook controller:

- :class:`aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.BaseRequestHandler` - Abstract class for aiohttp webhook controller
- :class:`aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.SimpleRequestHandler`  - Simple webhook controller, uses single Bot instance
- :class:`aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.TokenBasedRequestHandler`  - Token based webhook controller, uses multiple Bot instances and tokens

You can use it as is or inherit from it and override some methods.

.. autoclass:: aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.BaseRequestHandler
    :members: __init__, register, close, resolve_bot, verify_secret, handle

.. autoclass:: aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.SimpleRequestHandler
    :members: __init__, register, close, resolve_bot, verify_secret, handle

.. autoclass:: aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.TokenBasedRequestHandler
    :members: __init__, register, close, resolve_bot, verify_secret, handle

Security
--------

Telegram supports two methods to verify incoming requests that they are from Telegram:

Using a secret token
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you set webhook, you can specify a secret token and then use it to verify incoming requests.

Using IP filtering
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can specify a list of IP addresses from which you expect incoming requests, and then use it to verify incoming requests.

It can be acy using firewall rules or nginx configuration or middleware on application level.

So, aiogram has an implementation of the IP filtering middleware for aiohttp.

`aiogram` IP filtering middleware reads the left-most IP address from `X-Forwarded-For`.

.. warning::

    `X-Forwarded-For` is trustworthy only if all webhook traffic goes through a trusted reverse proxy that rewrites this header.
    If your application is directly reachable from the Internet, this header can be forged.

For production deployments, use defense in depth:

- Always set and verify :code:`X-Telegram-Bot-Api-Secret-Token`
- Restrict network access to the webhook endpoint (firewall, security groups, ACL)
- Ensure the backend app is not publicly reachable and accepts requests only from the trusted proxy

.. autofunction:: aiogram.webhook.aiohttp_server.ip_filter_middleware

.. autoclass:: aiogram.webhook.security.IPFilter
    :members: __init__, allow, allow_ip, default, check

Examples
--------

Behind reverse proxy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this example we'll use aiohttp as web framework and nginx as reverse proxy.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/echo_bot_webhook.py

When you use nginx as reverse proxy, you should set `proxy_pass` to your aiohttp server address.

.. code-block:: nginx

    location /webhook {
        proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_redirect off;
        proxy_buffering off;
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:8080;
    }


Without reverse proxy (not recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In case without using reverse proxy, you can use aiohttp's ssl context.

Also this example contains usage with self-signed certificate.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/echo_bot_webhook_ssl.py


With using other web framework
==============================

You can pass incoming request to aiogram's webhook controller from any web framework you want.

Read more about it in :meth:`aiogram.dispatcher.dispatcher.Dispatcher.feed_webhook_update`
or :meth:`aiogram.dispatcher.dispatcher.Dispatcher.feed_update` methods.

.. code-block:: python

    update = Update.model_validate(await request.json(), context={"bot": bot})
    await dispatcher.feed_update(bot, update)


.. note::

    If you want to use reply into webhook, you should check that result of the :code:`feed_update`
    methods is an instance of API method and build :code:`multipart/form-data`
    or :code:`application/json` response body manually.
